readme.md, before:

# gulp-ruby-sass [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass)

Compiles Sass with [the Sass gem](http://sass-lang.com/install).  
To compile Sass with [libsass](http://libsass.org/), use [gulp-sass](https://github.com/dlmanning/gulp-sass)


## Install

You must have [Sass >=3.4](http://sass-lang.com/install).

```
$ npm install --save-dev gulp-ruby-sass
```


## Important!

- gulp-ruby-sass is a gulp source adapter. Use it instead of `gulp.src`.
- Since it's a source adapter you need to catch errors on the stream itself instead of using a package like plumber. See the Usage section for examples.
- gulp-ruby-sass doesn't support globs yet, only single files or directories. Just like Sass.
- gulp-ruby-sass doesn't support incremental builds yet ([issue](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass/issues/111)).
- gulp-ruby-sass doesn't alter Sass's output in any way. Problems with Sass output should be reported to the [Sass issue tracker](https://github.com/sass/sass/issues).


## Usage

Use gulp-ruby-sass instead of `gulp.src` to compile a file or directory.  

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var sass = require('gulp-ruby-sass');

gulp.task('sass', function () {
	return sass('source/') 
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error!', err.message);
   })
	.pipe(gulp.dest('result'));
});
```

#### Recompiling on changes

Use [gulp-watch](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/API.md#gulpwatchglob--opts-tasks-or-gulpwatchglob--opts-cb) to automatically recompile your files on change.

#### Handling errors

Handle Sass errors with an `on('error', cb)` listener. gulp-ruby-sass throws errors like a gulp plugin, but streams the erroring files so you can see Sass errors in your browser too.

### Plugin options

#### verbose

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`  

Gives some extra information for debugging, including the actual spawned Sass command.

#### bundleExec

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`

Run `sass` with [bundle exec](http://gembundler.com/man/bundle-exec.1.html).

#### sourcemap

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`  

Requires Sass `>= 3.4` and [gulp-sourcemaps](https://github.com/floridoo/gulp-sourcemaps).  

*Inline sourcemaps* are recommended, as they "just work".

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var sass = require('gulp-ruby-sass');
var sourcemaps = require('gulp-sourcemaps');

gulp.task('sass', function() {
	return sass('source', { sourcemap: true })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })

	.pipe(sourcemaps.write())

	.pipe(gulp.dest('result'));
});
```

*File sourcemaps* require you to serve the sourcemap location so the browser can read the files. See the [gulp-sourcemaps readme](https://github.com/floridoo/gulp-sourcemaps) for more info.

```js
gulp.task('sass', function() {
	return sass('source', { sourcemap: true })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })

	.pipe(sourcemaps.write('maps', {
		includeContent: false,
		sourceRoot: '/source'
	}))

	.pipe(gulp.dest('result'));
});
```

#### container

Type: `String`  
Default: `gulp-ruby-sass`

Name of the temporary directory used to process files. If you're running multiple instances of gulp-ruby-sass at once, specify a separate container for each task to avoid files mixing together.

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var sass = require('gulp-ruby-sass');

gulp.task('sass-app', function() {
	return sass('source/app.scss', { container: 'gulp-ruby-sass-app' })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })
	.pipe(gulp.dest('result/app'));
});

gulp.task('sass-site', function() {
	return sass('source/site.scss', { container: 'gulp-ruby-sass-site' })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })
	.pipe(gulp.dest('result/site'));
});

gulp.task('sass', ['sass-app', 'sass-site']);
```

### Sass options

Any other options are passed directly to the Sass executable. gulp options are camelCase versions of Sass's dashed-case options.

The docs below list common options for convenience. Run `sass -h` for the complete list.

#### loadPath

Type: `string`, `array`  
Default: `false`

Import paths.

#### require

Type: `string`  
Default: `false`

Require a Ruby library before running Sass.

#### compass

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Make Compass imports available and load project configuration.

#### style

Type: `string`  
Default: `nested`

Output style. Can be nested (default), compact, compressed, or expanded.

#### force

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Recompile every Sass file, even if the CSS file is newer.

#### stopOnError

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

If a file fails to compile, exit immediately.

#### defaultEncoding

Type: `string`  
Default: `false`

Specify the default encoding for input files.

#### unixNewlines

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Use Unix-style newlines in written files on non-Unix systems. Always true on Unix.

#### debugInfo

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Emit output that can be used by the FireSass Firebug plugin.

#### lineNumbers

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Emit comments in the generated CSS indicating the corresponding source line.

#### check

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Just check syntax, don't evaluate.

#### precision 

Type: `number`  
Default: `5`

How many digits of precision to use when outputting decimal numbers.

#### cacheLocation

Type: `string`  
Default: `false`

The path to save parsed Sass files. Defaults to .sass-cache.

#### noCache

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Don't cache parsed Sass files.

#### trace

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Show a full Ruby stack trace on error.

#### quiet

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Silence warnings and status messages during compilation.


## License

MIT © [Sindre Sorhus](http://sindresorhus.com)

Commit message:

Add throwSassErrors option
This *should* throw Sass errors, but doesn't work consistently because the
stdout logging stream clumps Sass logs and Sass errors in the same output.

readme.md, after:

# gulp-ruby-sass [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass)

Compiles Sass with [the Sass gem](http://sass-lang.com/install).  
To compile Sass with [libsass](http://libsass.org/), use [gulp-sass](https://github.com/dlmanning/gulp-sass)


## Install

You must have [Sass >=3.4](http://sass-lang.com/install).

```
$ npm install --save-dev gulp-ruby-sass
```


## Important!

- gulp-ruby-sass is a gulp source adapter. Use it instead of `gulp.src`.
- Since it's a source adapter you need to catch errors on the stream itself instead of using a package like plumber. See the Usage section for examples.
- gulp-ruby-sass doesn't support globs yet, only single files or directories. Just like Sass.
- gulp-ruby-sass doesn't support incremental builds yet ([issue](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-ruby-sass/issues/111)).
- gulp-ruby-sass doesn't alter Sass's output in any way. Problems with Sass output should be reported to the [Sass issue tracker](https://github.com/sass/sass/issues).


## Usage

Use gulp-ruby-sass instead of `gulp.src` to compile a file or directory.  

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var sass = require('gulp-ruby-sass');

gulp.task('sass', function () {
	return sass('source/') 
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error!', err.message);
   })
	.pipe(gulp.dest('result'));
});
```

#### Recompiling on changes

Use [gulp-watch](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/API.md#gulpwatchglob--opts-tasks-or-gulpwatchglob--opts-cb) to automatically recompile your files on change.

#### Handling errors

Handle Sass errors with an `on('error', cb)` listener. gulp-ruby-sass throws errors like a gulp plugin, but streams the erroring files so you can see Sass errors in your browser too. See the [`throwSassErrors`](#throwSassErrors) option to change this behavior.

### Plugin options

#### verbose

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`  

Gives some extra information for debugging, including the actual spawned Sass command.

#### bundleExec

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`

Run `sass` with [bundle exec](http://gembundler.com/man/bundle-exec.1.html).

#### sourcemap

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`  

Requires Sass `>= 3.4` and [gulp-sourcemaps](https://github.com/floridoo/gulp-sourcemaps).  

*Inline sourcemaps* are recommended, as they "just work".

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var sass = require('gulp-ruby-sass');
var sourcemaps = require('gulp-sourcemaps');

gulp.task('sass', function() {
	return sass('source', { sourcemap: true })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })

	.pipe(sourcemaps.write())

	.pipe(gulp.dest('result'));
});
```

*File sourcemaps* require you to serve the sourcemap location so the browser can read the files. See the [gulp-sourcemaps readme](https://github.com/floridoo/gulp-sourcemaps) for more info.

```js
gulp.task('sass', function() {
	return sass('source', { sourcemap: true })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })

	.pipe(sourcemaps.write('maps', {
		includeContent: false,
		sourceRoot: '/source'
	}))

	.pipe(gulp.dest('result'));
});
```

#### container

Type: `String`  
Default: `gulp-ruby-sass`

Name of the temporary directory used to process files. If you're running multiple instances of gulp-ruby-sass at once, specify a separate container for each task to avoid files mixing together.

```js
var gulp = require('gulp');
var sass = require('gulp-ruby-sass');

gulp.task('sass-app', function() {
	return sass('source/app.scss', { container: 'gulp-ruby-sass-app' })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })
	.pipe(gulp.dest('result/app'));
});

gulp.task('sass-site', function() {
	return sass('source/site.scss', { container: 'gulp-ruby-sass-site' })
	.on('error', function (err) {
	  console.error('Error', err.message);
   })
	.pipe(gulp.dest('result/site'));
});

gulp.task('sass', ['sass-app', 'sass-site']);
```

#### throwSassErrors

Type: `Boolean`  
Default: `false`  

By default Sass always compiles CSS, even when there's a compilation error. The stack trace is inserted in the CSS file and is visible when loaded in the browser.

Set `throwSassErrors: true` if you'd rather handle errors at the gulp level. Sass errors will be emitted on the stream, and you can catch and handle them any way you like.

Can be combined with Sass's `stopOnError` option.

**NOTE:** Sass reports these errors on stdout and stderr. This option will not catch Sass errors if the Sass option `quiet` is set to true. 

### Sass options

Any other options are passed directly to the Sass executable. gulp options are camelCase versions of Sass's dashed-case options.

The docs below list common options for convenience. Run `sass -h` for the complete list.

#### loadPath

Type: `string`, `array`  
Default: `false`

Import paths.

#### require

Type: `string`  
Default: `false`

Require a Ruby library before running Sass.

#### compass

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Make Compass imports available and load project configuration.

#### style

Type: `string`  
Default: `nested`

Output style. Can be nested (default), compact, compressed, or expanded.

#### force

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Recompile every Sass file, even if the CSS file is newer.

#### stopOnError

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

If a file fails to compile, exit immediately.

#### defaultEncoding

Type: `string`  
Default: `false`

Specify the default encoding for input files.

#### unixNewlines

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Use Unix-style newlines in written files on non-Unix systems. Always true on Unix.

#### debugInfo

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Emit output that can be used by the FireSass Firebug plugin.

#### lineNumbers

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Emit comments in the generated CSS indicating the corresponding source line.

#### check

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Just check syntax, don't evaluate.

#### precision 

Type: `number`  
Default: `5`

How many digits of precision to use when outputting decimal numbers.

#### cacheLocation

Type: `string`  
Default: `false`

The path to save parsed Sass files. Defaults to .sass-cache.

#### noCache

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Don't cache parsed Sass files.

#### trace

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Show a full Ruby stack trace on error.

#### quiet

Type: `boolean`  
Default: `false`

Silence warnings and status messages during compilation.


## License

MIT © [Sindre Sorhus](http://sindresorhus.com)
